- Windows 11
- Installing IDE (Intergrated Developmemt Environment)
    Step 1: Visit the Visual Studio Code download page
    Step 2: Download the installer for Windows
    Step 3: Run the installer and follow the prompts to complete the installation
    Step 4: Launch Visual Studio Code and configure any initial settings
- Setting up a Version Control System 
   I Installed Git and configure it on my computer.
   I then created a GitHub account for hosting my repositories.
   I initialised a Git repository for your project and made my first commit.
    Step 1: Visit the Git download page and download the installer.
    Step 2: Run the installer and follow the prompts to install Git.
    Step 3: Open Git Bash to configure Git
    Step 4: Create a GitHub account at GitHub if you don't already have one.
    Step 5: Create a new repository on GitHub
    Step 6: clone the repository to the computer
    Step 7: Initialize a Git repository in your project folder and make your first commit.
- Installing necessary programming languages and runtimes
   Install Python programming language required and installing their runtimes.
    Step 1: Visit the Python download page and download the latest version.
    Syep 2: Run the installer and ensure you check the option to "Add Python to PATH"
    Step 3: Verify the installation by opening Command Prompt and typing "python --version"
- Configuring Database (MySQL)
   Download and install MySQL database
    Step 1: Visit the MySQL download page.
    Step 2: Download the MySQL Installer and run it.
    Step 3: Choose the "Developer Default" setup type and follow the promts to install Server & Workbench.
    Step 4: Configure MySQL Server during the installation process (set root password, create user accounts).
    Step 5: Verify the installation by opening MySQL Workbench and connecting to your local MySQL server.
- Exploring extensions and plugins and add-ons for the chosen IDE to enhance functionality.
    Step 1: Open Visual Studio Code.
    Step 2: Select the Extensions icon in the Activity Bar on the left side or press Ctrl+Shift+X.
    Step 3: Search for and install extensions such as: Python;flutter;dart
    Step 4: Configure the extensions as needed via settings
    Developer_Environment_Setup.md